# AMP KiwiSaver helper
A tool to calculate how much you will need to pay to make the most of government contributions based on reports
generated by AMP.

⚠️⚠️⚠️

**NOTE**: This tool is now depecrated, and has been replaced with [github.com/olliechick/amp-kiwisaver-helper](https://github.com/olliechick/amp-kiwisaver-helper).

The AMP website has been updated since I wrote this tool, so you can no longer download the PDF needed to use it.
You can now download a CSV of all your transactions, which would have required a refactoring of this app.
I instead decided to completely re-write it using Angular, so that it could be easily used by anyone (not just those who can run a Python script), just by visiting
the published version on my website. This is at the above link.

⚠️⚠️⚠️

## Premise
The New Zealand Government will pay 50 cents for every dollar that you contribute to your KiwiSaver, up to $521.43 per
year. So to take full advantage of this, you want to contribute at least $1,042.86 each year. This is calculated over
the period 1 July–31 June.
See https://www.kiwisaver.govt.nz/new/benefits/mtc/ for more details.

If your KiwiSaver is with AMP, they can generate a report which includes your contributions for an arbitrary date range,
but only as a PDF, and they don't give you a total for the contributions that count towards the $1,042.86.

The only way to get that information is to email them and ask for it, but that gets tiresome
(although it is a good way to double-check).

I created this Python GUI tool that does this for you, based on the text in the PDF.

## Instructions

1. Generate a report on the AMP website for the date range 1 July
(either last year or this year, whichever was closest, but still in the past) until today.
See [Generating a report](#Generating-a-report) below for more detailed instructions.
2. Run this app (`./amp_kiwisaver_helper.py`).
2. Open the report PDF, select all (Ctrl+A), then copy it and paste it into this app.
3. That's it! You will now see how much you still need to contribute (in the bottom left),
and you can export the contributions that count to a CSV.

### Configuring which types of contributions count

Only some contributions count towards the $1,042.86.
For me, that is `Member Contribution`s and `Direct Debits and Additional Contributions`.
However, if you made others (which you can double check by emailing [kiwisaver@amp.co.nz](mailto:kiwisaver@amp.co.nz)),
you will have to add them. You can do this with the following steps:

1. Click File
2. Click Set valid accounts - a second window will open
3. Enter the *last two words* of the account type
(under the "Account" column from the PDF, in the "Investment transaction details" section)
into the textbox in the bottom-right of the second window
4. Click Add
5. The amount left to contribute will automatically update; you can now close the second window

You can also delete them by clicking on the account type and clicking Delete.

To reset them to the default, click File, then Reset valid accounts to default.

### Generating a report
This is accurate as of the time of writing, 7 May 2019.

1. Log in to My AMP
2. Click Reports (on the left)
3. Under "Select product", select your KiwiSaver scheme (for me, this is AMP KiwiSaver Scheme - KXXXXXXX)
4. Under "Details by date range", select Custom date range
5. Under Date From, select 1 July (this year if it's in the past, or last year if not)
4. Under Date To, select today's date
5. Click the "Generate Report" button
6. A report will appear in the "Your reports" section
7. Click the document icon in the View column
8. Save the report PDF somewhere (e.g. Desktop)

## Contact

If you have any questions or find any errors, feel free to
submit a [PR](https://github.com/olliechick/amp-kiwisaver-helper/pulls) or
[create an issue](https://github.com/olliechick/amp-kiwisaver-helper/issues/new).
